1.       What are the American College of Radiology guidelines for screening mammography?
 
A.      Annually beginning at age 50 and continuing as long as the women is in good health
B.      Annually beginning at age 40 and continuing as long as the women is in good health
C.      Annually beginning at age 40 and continuing until 80 years of age
D.      Annually beginning at age 50 and continuing until 80 years of age
 
2.       In an average-risk population what is the approximate cancer detection rate during prevalence (first-round) mammographic screening?
 
A.      Approximately 6-10 cancers per 1000 patients
B.      Approximately 2-4 cancers per 1000 patients
C.      Approximately 14-16 cancers per 1000 patients
D.      Approximately 1-2 cancers per 1000 patients
 
3.       According to MQSA guidelines which quality control test should be performed on a weekly basis?
 
A.      Phantom image quality
B.      Screen-film contact
C.      Compression device performance
D.      Radiation dose
 
4.       What are physician qualifications outlined in the American College of Radiology practice guidelines for ultrasound-guided breast interventional procedures?
 
A.      Minimum of 8 hours of Category 1 CME didactic instruction in ultrasound-guided biopsy techniques and performance of at least 12 biopsy procedures under the supervision of a qualified physician
B.      The physician should perform at least 12 ultrasound-guided breast biopsies every 2 years
C.      The physician should obtain at least 6 hours of Category 1 CME in ultrasound-guided breast biopsy every 3 years
D.      Should meet the initial qualifications specified in the ACR Practice Guideline for the Performance of Screening and Diagnostic Mammography
 
5.       Which of the following statements regarding mammographic positioning is TRUE?
 
A.      The standard MLO view may miss cancers in the medial aspect of the breast
B.      Motion blur occurs most often in the superior breast on MLO views
C.      The difference between the posterior nipple line measurement on the mediolateral oblique and craniocaudal views should ideally exceed 1 cm
D.      CC view should be positioned to include as much lateral tissue as possible without rotating the nipple from the midline
 
6.       In mammography, adequate breast compression results in all of the following EXCEPT
 
A.      Reduced scatter radiation
B.      Reduced radiation dose
C.      Reduced exposure dynamic range
D.      Elimination of grid
 
 
7.       Which of the following statements regarding digital mammography is FALSE?
 
A.      According to the results of Digital Mammography Imaging Screening Trial (DMIST) there is no improvement in cancer detection rate for digital mammography over film screen mammography  for the general population
B.      Digital technology detects significantly more cancers than film screen in women with dense breasts
C.      The spatial resolution of digital systems is significantly better than that of analog film screen systems
D.      The contrast resolution of digital systems is significantly better than that of analog film screen systems
 
8.       The American Cancer Society recommends annual breast MRI screening for patients with
 
A.      A personal history of breast cancer, including ductal carcinoma insitu (DCIS)
B.      Lobular carcinoma insitu (LCIS) or atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH)
C.      First-degree relative of BRCA carrier, but untested
D.      Lifetime risk 15–20%, as defined by BRCAPRO or other models
 
9.       Concerning breast density, which of the following statements is FALSE?
 
A.      The most common cause for bilaterally symmetric increasing density is exogenous hormone therapy
B.      The American Cancer Society recommends annual breast MRI screening for women with dense breasts and strong family history of breast cancer
C.      Women with dense breasts are at increased risk of developing breast cancer compared to those with fatty breasts
D.      Breast density can change with weight gain or loss

 

10.   Which of the following is the most significant prognostic factor for poor overall survival in patients with breast cancer?
 
A.      Lymphatic/vascular invasion
B.      Her 2 Neu gene amplification and/or overexpression
C.      Axillary lymph node status
D.      Histologic grade


11. Craniocaudal and Mediolateral oblique mammograms of a 45-year-old female with a right breast mass. Based on the imaging appearance which of the following malignant neoplasm is MOST LIKELY?
 
Tubular carcinoma
Papillary carcinoma
Triple negative invasive ductal carcinoma
Medullary carcinoma

12. Gray scale ultrasound and color Doppler ultrasound images of a 50-year-old male with a right retroareolar mass. Based on the imaging appearance which of the following neoplasm is MOST LIKELY?
 
A. Invasive ductal carcinoma
B. Papillary neoplasm
C. Spindle cell neoplasm
D. Metastasis

13. Concerning BI-RADS category 3 assessment, which of the following statements is FALSE?

A.      Use of probably benign assessment for a palpable lesion is not supported by scientific data
B.      A finding placed in this category should have <2%   risk of malignancy
C.      When probably benign findings increase in size or extent during followup biopsy is indicated
D.       About 5% of screening mammograms are assigned this category without additional imaging evaluation

14. Pertaining to male breast diseases, which of the following statements is TRUE?

A.      Lipoma is the most common benign condition of the male breast
B.      Cystic lesions are usually benign and often require no further workup
C.      Eccentric location of a mass in relation to the nipple is highly suggestive of gynecomastia
D.      Clinically suspicious lesions referred for imaging should be first evaluated with mammography

15.
Craniocaudal and Mediolateral oblique mammograms of a 35-year-old lactating female with a right breast mass. Based on the imaging appearance which of the following is the most probable diagnosis?
 
Pregnancy-associated breast cancer
Granulomatous mastitis
Plasma cell mastitis
Juvenile papillomatosis